Documentation/Lab2-WindowsServer.md, before:

![logo](/Images/logo.png)
# 💙🤍Lab1 Windows Server🤍💙



---

## 📘Table of Contents

1. [Introduction](#introduction)
2. [Assignment](#assignment)
3. [Steps](#steps)



---

## 🖖Introduction



### 📝Assignment 
> NOTE This is in Dutch

- DOEL: Basis Configuratie van een Windows 2022 server.
- REF: Windows Server slides op Canvas.

0. INSTALLATIE
    - Download Windows Server 2022 64-bit (English) van Microsoft DreamSpark.
    - Installeer deze in VirtualBox (met Dekstop Experience).
    - Maak hiervan een Kloon in VirtualBox.

1. ALGEMENE INSTELLINGEN
    - Let op dat je eerst volgende instellingen aanpast bij je virtuele machine:
        - Extra netwerkkaart toevoegen in je virtuele machine (1 NAT + 1 host-only, waarom?).
        - Verander de naam van de server naar `WINSERVER` via Sever Manager -> Local Server.
        - Geef de host-only adapter (waarom deze en niet de NAT adapter?) een vast IP adres (waarom?) kies het adres rekening houdend met de DHCP range van het host-only netwerk in VirtualBox (waarom?).
        - De Folder settings aanpassen zodat je alle extensies ziet.

2. INSTALLATIE AD EN DNS
    - Start de server manager op.
    - Installeer volgende Roles:
        - Active Directory Domain Services, DNS server.
        - Voer de post-deployment configuratie uit: promote server to domain controller (new forest).
        - Kies als domein naam `lastname.local`.

3. OPSTARTEN CONSOLE EN ACTIVE DIRECTORY
    - Start `Group Policy Management` (via Server Manager -> Tools).
	    - Klik in de linkerkolom de Forest en Domains open.
	    - Ga bij jou domain name (bv `lastname.local`) op `Default Domain Policy` staan.
	    - Klik hierop met rechtermuisknop.
	    - Bekijk nu de `Default Domain Policy` door `Edit` te kiezen.
	    - Je komt in de Group Policy Management Editor terecht.
    - Group Policy Management Editor:
        - Ga naar `Computer Configuration` -> `Policies` -> `Windows Settings` -> `Security Settings`.
        - Zorg hier dat gebruikers ook als paswoord gewoon hun gebruikersnaam kunnen ingeven.
        - Dus een eenvoudig paswoord zonder al te veel vereisten.
    - Ga nu naar AD Users and Computers (via Server Manager -> Tools).
        - Probeer hier een copy te doen van het administrator account.
        - Als login naam en paswoord geef je `cisco` in.
        - Als het systeem een melding geeft, gebruik je het commando `gpupdate /force`.
        - Test of je met de user `cisco` kan inloggen.

4. AANMAAK OU EN USERS
    - Ga terug staan op je domain name (bv `lastname.local`). Rechtermuisklik op Domain Name en kies `New Organizational` Unit (OU).
    - Maak volgende structuur rechtermuiskliksgewijze aan:
        - OU `Admins` met user `cisco`.
        - OU `Docenten` met user `docent1`.
        - OU `Studenten` met sub OU's `INF1` en `INF2` met users `student1` en `student2` respectievelijk. 
    - Vergelijk gebruik ADUC (Active Directory Users and Computers) en ADAC (Server Manager -> Tools Menu -> Active Directory Administration Center).

5. AANMAAK SHARES
    - Maak een group `StudentenGroep` en `DocentenGroep` (Global, Security) aan in de resp. OU's, waarin alle studenten/docenten zitten.
    - Maak volgende shares aan op de server. (Geef Domain Administrators telkens Full Control):
        - `C:\Shares\Throughput` `Studenten Read`, `Docenten Modify`.
        - `C:\Shares\home\student1` homedirectory voor `student1`.
        - `C:\Shares\home\student2` homedirectory voor `student2`.
    - Maak een map `C:\Shares\examens` aan waar `studenten` hun examen in kunnen `droppen`, maar niet elkaars oplossing kunnen lezen en waar `docenten/administrator` wel in kan `lezen`.
    - Hiervoor moet je wel in de `Domain Controller Policy` toelaten dat gebruikers lokaal kunnen aanloggen.

6. REMOTE DESKTOP
    - Kan je op je laptop een remote desktop RDP verbinding maken?
    - Wat moet je hiervoor aanzetten op je Windows Server?
    - Log via RDP in met de user `cisco`.

## ✨Steps

### 👉 Step 0: Requirements
- Install VirtualBox/VMware
- Download Windows Server 2022 64-bit (English) from Microsoft DreamSpark.
- Install Windows Server 2022 in VirtualBox (with Dekstop Experience).
- Add an extra network card to your virtual machine (So you need two in total).
    - 1 NAT (External network **internet**)
    - 1 Host-Only (Internal network **local**)

### 👉 Step 1: General Configuration
- Change the name of the server to `WINSERVER` via Sever Manager -> Local Server.
- Rename the network adapters.
    - NAT: `NAT`
    - Host-Only: `Host-Only`

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-1.png)

- Give the `Host-Only` adapter a static IP address. in my case `192.168.19.10`.
- Change the Folder settings so you can see all extensions.

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-2.png)

### 👉 Step 2: AD & DNS Installation

- Start the server manager.
- Install the following Roles:
    - Active Directory Domain Services
    - DNS server

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-3.png)

- Follow the post-deployment configuration: Promote server to domain controller (`new forest`).

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-4.png)

- Choose the domain name `lastname.local`. In my case `dehondt.local`.

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-5.png)

### 👉 Step 3: Start-Up Console & AD

- Press `Windows + R` and type `gpmc.msc` to open the Group Policy Management.
- Click on the `Default Domain Policy` -> `Forest` -> `Domains` -> `lastname.local` -> `Default Domain Policy` -> `Edit`.

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-6.png)

- Go to `Computer Configuration` -> `Policies` -> `Windows Settings` -> `Security Settings` -> `Account Policies` -> `Password Policy`.
- Change the password policy to `Password must meet complexity requirements: Disabled`.

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-7.png)

- Change the password policy to `Minimum password length: 0`.

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-8.png)

- Press `Windows + R` and type `dsa.msc` to open the Active Directory Users and Computers.
- Create a copy of the administrator account and name it `cisco`.

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-9.png)

- If the system gives a notification open the command prompt and type `gpupdate /force` to update the group policy.

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-10.png)

### 👉 Step 4: Create OU & Users

- Press `Windows + R` and type `dsa.msc` to open the Active Directory Users and Computers.
- Right-click on the domain name `lastname.local` and choose `New` -> `Organizational Unit`.

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-11.png)

- Create the following structure:
    - OU `Admins` with user `cisco`.
    - OU `Docenten` with user `docent1`.
    - OU `Studenten` with sub OU's `INF1` and `INF2` with users `student1` and `student2` respectively.

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-12.png)

### 👉 Step 5: Create Shares

- Press `Windows + R` and type `dsa.msc` to open the Active Directory Users and Computers.
- Create a group `StudentenGroep` and `DocentenGroep` (Global, Security) in the resp. OU's, where all `studenten/docenten` are in.

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-13.png)

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-14.png)

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-15.png)

- Create the directorys: (Give Domain Administrators Full Control)
    - `C:\shares\throughput`:
        - Primission: `StudentenGroep` -> `Read & Execute`.
        - Primission: `DocentenGroep` -> `Modify`.
    - `C:\shares\home\student1`:
         - Primission: `student1` -> `Modify`.
    - `C:\shares\home\student2`:
        - Primission: `student2` -> `Modify`.
    - `C:\shares\examens`:
        - Primission: `DocentenGroep` -> `Read & Execut`.
        - Primission: `StudentenGroep`:
            - Type: `Allow`.
            - Applies to: `This folder, subfolders and files`.
            - Basic permissions: `Create files / write data`, `Create folders / append data`.

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-16.png)

- e.g: for `C:\shares\throughput`:

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-17.png)

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-18.png)

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-19.png)

- Create the following shares on the server. (Give Domain Administrators Full Control):
    - `\\WINSERVER\shares\throughput`:
        - Name the share `throughput`.
    - `\\WINSERVER\shares\home\student1`:
        - Name the share `homestudent1`.
    - `\\WINSERVER\shares\home\student2`:
        - Name the share `homestudent2`.
    - `\\WINSERVER\shares\examens`:
        - Name the share `examens`.
        

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-20.png)

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-21.png)

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-22.png)

- Make sure that all user accounts can log in into the domain controller for testing purposes.

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-23.png)

- Test if you can access the shares from your local machine.
    - Make sure that all permissions are properly configured.

### 👉 Step 6: Remote Desktop

- Make sure that you can make a remote desktop RDP connection from your laptop. With the user `cisco`.
- Go to `Server Manager` -> `Local Server` -> `Remote Desktop` -> `Enable Remote Desktop`.

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-24.png)

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-25.png)

## 📦Extra

- - It is possible to save your remote connection:
    - Open the `Remote Desktop Connection` and fill in the IP address of the server.
    - Click on `Show Options`.
    - Fill in the username and the IP.
    - Click on `Save As` and save the connection.
    - Nem the file `WINSERVER.rdp`.
    - Code:
        ```rdp
        screen mode id:i:1
        use multimon:i:0
        desktopwidth:i:1920
        desktopheight:i:1080
        session bpp:i:32
        winposstr:s:0,1,182,126,1593,881
        compression:i:1
        keyboardhook:i:2
        audiocapturemode:i:0
        videoplaybackmode:i:1
        connection type:i:7
        networkautodetect:i:1
        bandwidthautodetect:i:1
        displayconnectionbar:i:1
        enableworkspacereconnect:i:0
        disable wallpaper:i:0
        allow font smoothing:i:0
        allow desktop composition:i:0
        disable full window drag:i:1
        disable menu anims:i:1
        disable themes:i:0
        disable cursor setting:i:0
        bitmapcachepersistenable:i:1
        full address:s:192.168.19.10
        audiomode:i:0
        redirectprinters:i:1
        redirectcomports:i:0
        redirectsmartcards:i:1
        redirectclipboard:i:1
        redirectposdevices:i:0
        autoreconnection enabled:i:1
        authentication level:i:2
        prompt for credentials:i:0
        negotiate security layer:i:1
        remoteapplicationmode:i:0
        alternate shell:s:
        shell working directory:s:
        gatewayhostname:s:
        gatewayusagemethod:i:4
        gatewaycredentialssource:i:4
        gatewayprofileusagemethod:i:0
        promptcredentialonce:i:0
        gatewaybrokeringtype:i:0
        use redirection server name:i:0
        rdgiskdcproxy:i:0
        kdcproxyname:s:
        redirectlocation:i:0
        redirectwebauthn:i:1
        enablerdsaadauth:i:0
        ```

- Create a script so the group policies updates automatically:
    - Create a new file `updateGPO.bat`.
    - Add the following code to the file:
    ```bat
    @echo off
    gpupdate /force
    ```

- Create a script so the shares are created automatically:
    - Create a new file `createShares.bat`.
    - Add the following code to the file:
    ```bat
    @echo off
    net share throughput=C:\shares\throughput /GRANT:StudentenGroep,READ /GRANT:DocentenGroep,CHANGE
    net share homestudent1=C:\shares\home\student1 /GRANT:student1,CHANGE
    net share homestudent2=C:\shares\home\student2 /GRANT:student2,CHANGE
    net share examens=C:\shares\examens /GRANT:DocentenGroep,READ /GRANT:StudentenGroep,CHANGE
    ```

- Create a script so the users are created automatically:
    - Create a new file `createUsers.bat`.
    - Add the following code to the file:
    ```bat
    @echo off
    dsadd user "CN=student1,OU=INF1,OU=Studenten,DC=dehondt,DC=local" -pwd "password" -mustchpwd yes -disabled no
    dsadd user "CN=student2,OU=INF2,OU=Studenten,DC=dehondt,DC=local" -pwd "password" -mustchpwd yes -disabled no
    dsadd user "CN=docent1,OU=Docenten,DC=dehondt,DC=local" -pwd "password" -mustchpwd yes -disabled no
    dsadd user "CN=cisco,OU=Admins,DC=dehondt,DC=local" -pwd "password" -mustchpwd yes -disabled no
    ```

- Create a script so the groups are created automatically:
    - Create a new file `createGroups.bat`.
    - Add the following code to the file:
    ```bat
    @echo off
    dsadd group "CN=StudentenGroep,OU=Studenten,DC=dehondt,DC=local"
    dsadd group "CN=DocentenGroep,OU=Docenten,DC=dehondt,DC=local"
    ```

- Create a script so the OU's are created automatically:
    - Create a new file `createOUs.bat`.
    - Add the following code to the file:
    ```bat
    @echo off
    dsadd ou "OU=Admins,DC=dehondt,DC=local"
    dsadd ou "OU=Docenten,DC=dehondt,DC=local"
    dsadd ou "OU=Studenten,DC=dehondt,DC=local"
    dsadd ou "OU=INF1,OU=Studenten,DC=dehondt,DC=local"
    dsadd ou "OU=INF2,OU=Studenten,DC=dehondt,DC=local"
    ```

- Create a script so the roles are installed automatically:
    - Create a new file `installRoles.bat`.
    - Add the following code to the file:
    ```bat
    @echo off
    dism /online /enable-feature /featurename:ADDS /all
    dism /online /enable-feature /featurename:DNS /all
    ```

- Create a script so the server is renamed automatically:
    - Create a new file `renameServer.bat`.
    - Add the following code to the file:
    ```bat
    @echo off
    netdom renamecomputer %computername% /NewName:WINSERVER /Force /Reboot
    ```

- Create a script so the network adapters are renamed automatically:
    - Create a new file `renameNetworkAdapters.bat`.
    - Add the following code to the file:
    ```bat
    @echo off
    netsh interface set interface name="Ethernet" newname="NAT"
    netsh interface set interface name="Ethernet 2" newname="Host-Only"
    ```

## 🔗Links
- 👯 Web hosting company [EliasDH.com](https://eliasdh.com).
- 📫 How to reach us eliasdehondt@outlook.com.

Commit message:

Add lab steps and description for Windows Server configuration

Documentation/Lab2-WindowsServer.md, after:

![logo](/Images/logo.png)
# 💙🤍Lab1 Windows Server🤍💙

This is a lab for Windows Server. The goal of this lab is to create a basic configuration of a Windows 2022 server.

---

## 📘Table of Contents

1. [Introduction](#introduction)
2. [Assignment](#assignment)
3. [Steps](#steps)
    - [Step 0: Requirements](#step-0-requirements)
    - [Step 1: General Configuration](#step-1-general-configuration)
    - [Step 2: AD & DNS Installation](#step-2-ad--dns-installation)
    - [Step 3: Start-Up Console & AD](#step-3-start-up-console--ad)
    - [Step 4: Create OU & Users](#step-4-create-ou--users)
    - [Step 5: Create Shares](#step-5-create-shares)
    - [Step 6: Remote Desktop](#step-6-remote-desktop)
4. [Extra](#extra)
5. [Links](#links)

---

## 🖖Introduction

This is a lab for Windows Server. The goal of this lab is to create a basic configuration of a Windows 2022 server. This lab will help you to understand the basic configuration of a Windows Server. You will learn how to install and configure the Active Directory and DNS server. You will also learn how to create OU's, users, groups, and shares. You will also learn how to configure the remote desktop.

### 📝Assignment 
> NOTE This is in Dutch

- DOEL: Basis Configuratie van een Windows 2022 server.
- REF: Windows Server slides op Canvas.

0. INSTALLATIE
    - Download Windows Server 2022 64-bit (English) van Microsoft DreamSpark.
    - Installeer deze in VirtualBox (met Dekstop Experience).
    - Maak hiervan een Kloon in VirtualBox.

1. ALGEMENE INSTELLINGEN
    - Let op dat je eerst volgende instellingen aanpast bij je virtuele machine:
        - Extra netwerkkaart toevoegen in je virtuele machine (1 NAT + 1 host-only, waarom?).
        - Verander de naam van de server naar `WINSERVER` via Sever Manager -> Local Server.
        - Geef de host-only adapter (waarom deze en niet de NAT adapter?) een vast IP adres (waarom?) kies het adres rekening houdend met de DHCP range van het host-only netwerk in VirtualBox (waarom?).
        - De Folder settings aanpassen zodat je alle extensies ziet.

2. INSTALLATIE AD EN DNS
    - Start de server manager op.
    - Installeer volgende Roles:
        - Active Directory Domain Services, DNS server.
        - Voer de post-deployment configuratie uit: promote server to domain controller (new forest).
        - Kies als domein naam `lastname.local`.

3. OPSTARTEN CONSOLE EN ACTIVE DIRECTORY
    - Start `Group Policy Management` (via Server Manager -> Tools).
	    - Klik in de linkerkolom de Forest en Domains open.
	    - Ga bij jou domain name (bv `lastname.local`) op `Default Domain Policy` staan.
	    - Klik hierop met rechtermuisknop.
	    - Bekijk nu de `Default Domain Policy` door `Edit` te kiezen.
	    - Je komt in de Group Policy Management Editor terecht.
    - Group Policy Management Editor:
        - Ga naar `Computer Configuration` -> `Policies` -> `Windows Settings` -> `Security Settings`.
        - Zorg hier dat gebruikers ook als paswoord gewoon hun gebruikersnaam kunnen ingeven.
        - Dus een eenvoudig paswoord zonder al te veel vereisten.
    - Ga nu naar AD Users and Computers (via Server Manager -> Tools).
        - Probeer hier een copy te doen van het administrator account.
        - Als login naam en paswoord geef je `cisco` in.
        - Als het systeem een melding geeft, gebruik je het commando `gpupdate /force`.
        - Test of je met de user `cisco` kan inloggen.

4. AANMAAK OU EN USERS
    - Ga terug staan op je domain name (bv `lastname.local`). Rechtermuisklik op Domain Name en kies `New Organizational` Unit (OU).
    - Maak volgende structuur rechtermuiskliksgewijze aan:
        - OU `Admins` met user `cisco`.
        - OU `Docenten` met user `docent1`.
        - OU `Studenten` met sub OU's `INF1` en `INF2` met users `student1` en `student2` respectievelijk. 
    - Vergelijk gebruik ADUC (Active Directory Users and Computers) en ADAC (Server Manager -> Tools Menu -> Active Directory Administration Center).

5. AANMAAK SHARES
    - Maak een group `StudentenGroep` en `DocentenGroep` (Global, Security) aan in de resp. OU's, waarin alle studenten/docenten zitten.
    - Maak volgende shares aan op de server. (Geef Domain Administrators telkens Full Control):
        - `C:\Shares\Throughput` `Studenten Read`, `Docenten Modify`.
        - `C:\Shares\home\student1` homedirectory voor `student1`.
        - `C:\Shares\home\student2` homedirectory voor `student2`.
    - Maak een map `C:\Shares\examens` aan waar `studenten` hun examen in kunnen `droppen`, maar niet elkaars oplossing kunnen lezen en waar `docenten/administrator` wel in kan `lezen`.
    - Hiervoor moet je wel in de `Domain Controller Policy` toelaten dat gebruikers lokaal kunnen aanloggen.

6. REMOTE DESKTOP
    - Kan je op je laptop een remote desktop RDP verbinding maken?
    - Wat moet je hiervoor aanzetten op je Windows Server?
    - Log via RDP in met de user `cisco`.

## ✨Steps

### 👉 Step 0: Requirements
- Install VirtualBox/VMware
- Download Windows Server 2022 64-bit (English) from Microsoft DreamSpark.
- Install Windows Server 2022 in VirtualBox (with Dekstop Experience).
- Add an extra network card to your virtual machine (So you need two in total).
    - 1 NAT (External network **internet**)
    - 1 Host-Only (Internal network **local**)

### 👉 Step 1: General Configuration
- Change the name of the server to `WINSERVER` via Sever Manager -> Local Server.
- Rename the network adapters.
    - NAT: `NAT`
    - Host-Only: `Host-Only`

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-1.png)

- Give the `Host-Only` adapter a static IP address. in my case `192.168.19.10`.
- Change the Folder settings so you can see all extensions.

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-2.png)

### 👉 Step 2: AD & DNS Installation

- Start the server manager.
- Install the following Roles:
    - Active Directory Domain Services
    - DNS server

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-3.png)

- Follow the post-deployment configuration: Promote server to domain controller (`new forest`).

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-4.png)

- Choose the domain name `lastname.local`. In my case `dehondt.local`.

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-5.png)

### 👉 Step 3: Start-Up Console & AD

- Press `Windows + R` and type `gpmc.msc` to open the Group Policy Management.
- Click on the `Default Domain Policy` -> `Forest` -> `Domains` -> `lastname.local` -> `Default Domain Policy` -> `Edit`.

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-6.png)

- Go to `Computer Configuration` -> `Policies` -> `Windows Settings` -> `Security Settings` -> `Account Policies` -> `Password Policy`.
- Change the password policy to `Password must meet complexity requirements: Disabled`.

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-7.png)

- Change the password policy to `Minimum password length: 0`.

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-8.png)

- Press `Windows + R` and type `dsa.msc` to open the Active Directory Users and Computers.
- Create a copy of the administrator account and name it `cisco`.

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-9.png)

- If the system gives a notification open the command prompt and type `gpupdate /force` to update the group policy.

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-10.png)

### 👉 Step 4: Create OU & Users

- Press `Windows + R` and type `dsa.msc` to open the Active Directory Users and Computers.
- Right-click on the domain name `lastname.local` and choose `New` -> `Organizational Unit`.

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-11.png)

- Create the following structure:
    - OU `Admins` with user `cisco`.
    - OU `Docenten` with user `docent1`.
    - OU `Studenten` with sub OU's `INF1` and `INF2` with users `student1` and `student2` respectively.

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-12.png)

### 👉 Step 5: Create Shares

- Press `Windows + R` and type `dsa.msc` to open the Active Directory Users and Computers.
- Create a group `StudentenGroep` and `DocentenGroep` (Global, Security) in the resp. OU's, where all `studenten/docenten` are in.

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-13.png)

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-14.png)

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-15.png)

- Create the directorys: (Give Domain Administrators Full Control)
    - `C:\shares\throughput`:
        - Primission: `StudentenGroep` -> `Read & Execute`.
        - Primission: `DocentenGroep` -> `Modify`.
    - `C:\shares\home\student1`:
         - Primission: `student1` -> `Modify`.
    - `C:\shares\home\student2`:
        - Primission: `student2` -> `Modify`.
    - `C:\shares\examens`:
        - Primission: `DocentenGroep` -> `Read & Execut`.
        - Primission: `StudentenGroep`:
            - Type: `Allow`.
            - Applies to: `This folder, subfolders and files`.
            - Basic permissions: `Create files / write data`, `Create folders / append data`.

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-16.png)

- e.g: for `C:\shares\throughput`:

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-17.png)

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-18.png)

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-19.png)

- Create the following shares on the server. (Give Domain Administrators Full Control):
    - `\\WINSERVER\shares\throughput`:
        - Name the share `throughput`.
    - `\\WINSERVER\shares\home\student1`:
        - Name the share `homestudent1`.
    - `\\WINSERVER\shares\home\student2`:
        - Name the share `homestudent2`.
    - `\\WINSERVER\shares\examens`:
        - Name the share `examens`.
        

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-20.png)

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-21.png)

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-22.png)

- Make sure that all user accounts can log in into the domain controller for testing purposes.

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-23.png)

- Test if you can access the shares from your local machine.
    - Make sure that all permissions are properly configured.

### 👉 Step 6: Remote Desktop

- Make sure that you can make a remote desktop RDP connection from your laptop. With the user `cisco`.
- Go to `Server Manager` -> `Local Server` -> `Remote Desktop` -> `Enable Remote Desktop`.

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-24.png)

![logo](/Images/Lab2-WindowsServer-25.png)

## 📦Extra

- - It is possible to save your remote connection:
    - Open the `Remote Desktop Connection` and fill in the IP address of the server.
    - Click on `Show Options`.
    - Fill in the username and the IP.
    - Click on `Save As` and save the connection.
    - Nem the file `WINSERVER.rdp`.
    - Code:
        ```rdp
        screen mode id:i:1
        use multimon:i:0
        desktopwidth:i:1920
        desktopheight:i:1080
        session bpp:i:32
        winposstr:s:0,1,182,126,1593,881
        compression:i:1
        keyboardhook:i:2
        audiocapturemode:i:0
        videoplaybackmode:i:1
        connection type:i:7
        networkautodetect:i:1
        bandwidthautodetect:i:1
        displayconnectionbar:i:1
        enableworkspacereconnect:i:0
        disable wallpaper:i:0
        allow font smoothing:i:0
        allow desktop composition:i:0
        disable full window drag:i:1
        disable menu anims:i:1
        disable themes:i:0
        disable cursor setting:i:0
        bitmapcachepersistenable:i:1
        full address:s:192.168.19.10
        audiomode:i:0
        redirectprinters:i:1
        redirectcomports:i:0
        redirectsmartcards:i:1
        redirectclipboard:i:1
        redirectposdevices:i:0
        autoreconnection enabled:i:1
        authentication level:i:2
        prompt for credentials:i:0
        negotiate security layer:i:1
        remoteapplicationmode:i:0
        alternate shell:s:
        shell working directory:s:
        gatewayhostname:s:
        gatewayusagemethod:i:4
        gatewaycredentialssource:i:4
        gatewayprofileusagemethod:i:0
        promptcredentialonce:i:0
        gatewaybrokeringtype:i:0
        use redirection server name:i:0
        rdgiskdcproxy:i:0
        kdcproxyname:s:
        redirectlocation:i:0
        redirectwebauthn:i:1
        enablerdsaadauth:i:0
        ```

- Create a script so the group policies updates automatically:
    - Create a new file `updateGPO.bat`.
    - Add the following code to the file:
    ```bat
    @echo off
    gpupdate /force
    ```

- Create a script so the shares are created automatically:
    - Create a new file `createShares.bat`.
    - Add the following code to the file:
    ```bat
    @echo off
    net share throughput=C:\shares\throughput /GRANT:StudentenGroep,READ /GRANT:DocentenGroep,CHANGE
    net share homestudent1=C:\shares\home\student1 /GRANT:student1,CHANGE
    net share homestudent2=C:\shares\home\student2 /GRANT:student2,CHANGE
    net share examens=C:\shares\examens /GRANT:DocentenGroep,READ /GRANT:StudentenGroep,CHANGE
    ```

- Create a script so the users are created automatically:
    - Create a new file `createUsers.bat`.
    - Add the following code to the file:
    ```bat
    @echo off
    dsadd user "CN=student1,OU=INF1,OU=Studenten,DC=dehondt,DC=local" -pwd "password" -mustchpwd yes -disabled no
    dsadd user "CN=student2,OU=INF2,OU=Studenten,DC=dehondt,DC=local" -pwd "password" -mustchpwd yes -disabled no
    dsadd user "CN=docent1,OU=Docenten,DC=dehondt,DC=local" -pwd "password" -mustchpwd yes -disabled no
    dsadd user "CN=cisco,OU=Admins,DC=dehondt,DC=local" -pwd "password" -mustchpwd yes -disabled no
    ```

- Create a script so the groups are created automatically:
    - Create a new file `createGroups.bat`.
    - Add the following code to the file:
    ```bat
    @echo off
    dsadd group "CN=StudentenGroep,OU=Studenten,DC=dehondt,DC=local"
    dsadd group "CN=DocentenGroep,OU=Docenten,DC=dehondt,DC=local"
    ```

- Create a script so the OU's are created automatically:
    - Create a new file `createOUs.bat`.
    - Add the following code to the file:
    ```bat
    @echo off
    dsadd ou "OU=Admins,DC=dehondt,DC=local"
    dsadd ou "OU=Docenten,DC=dehondt,DC=local"
    dsadd ou "OU=Studenten,DC=dehondt,DC=local"
    dsadd ou "OU=INF1,OU=Studenten,DC=dehondt,DC=local"
    dsadd ou "OU=INF2,OU=Studenten,DC=dehondt,DC=local"
    ```

- Create a script so the roles are installed automatically:
    - Create a new file `installRoles.bat`.
    - Add the following code to the file:
    ```bat
    @echo off
    dism /online /enable-feature /featurename:ADDS /all
    dism /online /enable-feature /featurename:DNS /all
    ```

- Create a script so the server is renamed automatically:
    - Create a new file `renameServer.bat`.
    - Add the following code to the file:
    ```bat
    @echo off
    netdom renamecomputer %computername% /NewName:WINSERVER /Force /Reboot
    ```

- Create a script so the network adapters are renamed automatically:
    - Create a new file `renameNetworkAdapters.bat`.
    - Add the following code to the file:
    ```bat
    @echo off
    netsh interface set interface name="Ethernet" newname="NAT"
    netsh interface set interface name="Ethernet 2" newname="Host-Only"
    ```

## 🔗Links
- 👯 Web hosting company [EliasDH.com](https://eliasdh.com).
- 📫 How to reach us eliasdehondt@outlook.com.
